pdf viewer - annotations (#123)
DevExpress/dotnet-eud: interface-elements-for-desktop/articles/pdf-viewer/annotations.md

# Annotations

> When reviewing a document, you often need to draw attention to some important text the author can change later. You can use annotation to this purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use annotations to highlight important text the author should change, for example, when you review a document.
```

The PDF Viewer allows you to create text annotations (sticky notes) and text markup annotations (text highlights). All document annotations are displayed in the **Comments** panel.

![image](../../images/pdf-viewer-comments-pane.png)

## Create Annotations

> Use commands on the **Comment** ribbon page to create text markup annotations and sticky notes. Enable a selection tool in the **Text** group and select the text that should have an annotation. Click **Sticky Note** to place the sticky note in a document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use commands on the **Comment** ribbon page to create text markup annotations and sticky notes. Enable the selection tool in the **Text** group and select the text that should have an annotation. Click **Sticky Note** to place the sticky note in a document.
```

![image](../../images/comment-toolbar.png)

You can also add text markup annotations from the context menu.

![image](../../images/markup-context-menu.png)

> You can change the default settings for annotation tools. Click the drop-down arrow in the corresponding annotation tool and specify the color and opacity.

Reviewer: "the corresponding annotation tool" Which corresponding annotation tool?

![image](../../images/markup-tool-color-picker.png)

## Edit Annotations

Double-click the annotation in the **Comments** panel to edit its contents.

![image](../../images/pdf-viewer-navigation-pane-comments-edit.png)

> Right-click the annotation in the document or in the **Comments** navigation page and select **Properties...** to invoke the **Annotation Properties** dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Right-click the annotation in the document or **Comments** navigation page and select **Properties...** to invoke the **Annotation Properties** dialog.
```

![image](../../images/pdf-viewer-pop-up-comment.png)

![image](../../images/annotation-properties-dialog.png)

 This dialog allows you to change the annotation parameters. Click **Set as Default** to use the new settings as the default settings for all annotations.

## Add Replies and Reviews to the Annotation

You can use the **Comments** navigation pane to add replies and set review statuses for the annotations.

> Select an annotation on the pane, enter text in the invoked editor and click **Reply** to add the reply to the annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select an annotation on the pane, enter text in the invoked editor, and click **Reply** to add the reply to the annotation.
```

![image](../../images/pdf-viewer-comments-pane-reply.png)

To specify the review status, right-click an annotation, select Set Status, and set the status. Select None to remove the review status.

![image](../../images/pdf-viewer-pop-up-comment-review.png)

## Sort and Filter Annotations

You can sort and filter comments by page, author, date, type, check and review status.

Click the **Sort** button on the **Comments** navigation page to sort annotations and comments.

![image](../../images/pdf-viewer-pop-up-comment-sort.png)

> Click the **Filter** button to apply the filter. This filter will be applied to the annotations in the pane and in the document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the **Filter** button to apply the filter. This filter is applied to the annotations in the pane and in the document.
```

![image](../../images/pdf-viewer-pop-up-comment-filter.png)

> Use the **Search comments..** field to show annotations that contains the required text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the **Search comments..** field to show annotations that contain the search text.
```

## Remove Annotations

> Right-click an annotation in document or in the **Comments** navigation pane and select **Delete** in the context menu to remove the annotation. You can also select an annotation and press the **Delete** key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Right-click an annotation in the document or **Comments** navigation pane and select **Delete** in the context menu to remove the annotation. You can also select an annotation and press the **Delete** key.
```
